##The Circus Is in Town!
Coulrophobia- Fear of clowns.
Claustrophobia- Fear of confined spaces.

##Brazil Preps for 2016
Compare the following words: 
- franatic noun. a person whose strong admiration for something is extreme and unreasonable: a fitness/exercise _fanatic_. 
- frenetic adjective. involving a lot of movement or activity; extremely active, excited, or uncontrollable: Americans like fast cars, fast-food restaurants, and a _frenetic_ pace of life. 
- frantic adjective. extremely upset, esp. because of anxiety or fear: When his wife arrived at the hospital she was frantic with worry.
sport:spectators=concert:audience

to cut a deal 就是在做生意方面，或者是在司法方面 “和對方達成一個協議”
The two of us argued a year - who got the house, the furniture, the car? But our lawyers finally _cut a deal_ which we both thought was fair. So at last everything is settled.
to cut corners 的意思是：“找更方便的辦法，或者更便宜的辦法來做一件事”

##Making a Move
##Pluto: Our Favorite ‘Dwarf Planet’
Words about the stars:
- _astrology_: the ancient practice of studying the movements and positions of the sun, moon, planets, and stars in the belief that they influence human behavior. 
- _astronomy_: the scientific study of the universe as a whole and of objects that exist naturally in space, such as the stars.
- The moon is a _celestial_ body. of or from the sky above us

The knights _girded_ themselves for battle (= put on their swords and fighting clothes). to tie something around your body or part of your body.

_Make the cut/grade_

_controversy_ _debate_

_be en route to_ some play: on its way

##The Ride of a Lifetime!
She’s over 80, but she still has an amazing _zest_ for life. enthusiasm
You don’t seem very _enthusiastic_ about the movie. interested
Knowles is an _avid_ runner and cross-country skier. extremely interested

_nonagenarian_: a person of age 90 to 99. _centegenarian_, _octagenarian_

##Remembering Robin Williams
_warp speed_ noun: the highest possible speed. Examples: 
1. When Mario saw Helen enter the elevator, he grabbed his laptop and vaulted down the stairs at warp speed to get to the meeting room ahead of her. 
2. "You may have noticed that time, which is fleeting in the best of circumstances, has a way of moving at warp speed when you reach a certain age." — Ed Gebhart, Delaware County Daily Times, December 28, 2014

