#CHAPTER 2 QUEUE MANAGEMENT

Applications running on FreeRTOS are structured as a set of independent *tasks*. Each task is itself a mini program. Tasks talk to each other via *queues* as communication and synchronization mechanisms.

A queue can hold a finite number of fixed size data items. The finite number is called its 'length'. A datum, a First In First Out (FIFO) buffer, is written to the end (tail) of the queue and removed from the front (head) of the queue. Writing data to a queue causes _a byte for byte copy_ of the data to be stored in the queue itself. Reading data from a queue causes the copy of the data to be removed from the queue.

Queues are objects in their own right that are not owned by or assigned to any particular task.  This means queues _can be accessed by all tasks_, and can not hidden between tasks.

An optional *block* time to read from a queue or write to a queue: Should the queue already be empty/full, the time the task should be kept in the Blocked state to wait for data/space to be available from the queue.

##API Functions

xQueueHandle xQueueCreate(unsigned portBASE_TYPE uxQueueLength, unsigned portBASE_TYPE uxItemSize);

portBASE_TYPE xQueueSendToFront(xQueueHandle xQueue, const void * pvItemToQueue, portTickType xTicksToWait);

portBASE_TYPE xQueueSendToBack(xQueueHandle xQueue, const void * pvItemToQueue, portTickType xTicksToWait);

portBASE_TYPE xQueueReceive(xQueueHandle xQueue, const void * pvBuffer, portTickType xTicksToWait);

portBASE_TYPE xQueuePeek(xQueueHandle xQueue, const void * pvBuffer, portTickType xTicksToWait);

unsigned portBASE_TYPE uxQueueMessagesWaiting(xQueueHandle xQueue);

##REFERENCES
[1] Richard Barry, Using the FreeRTOS Real Time Kernel - A Practical Guide - Cortex-M3 Edition, year 2010. Version 1.3.2. p.71~96

##TODOs
xQueueSend=xQueueSendToBack: to the back (tail) xQueueSendToFront: to the front (head) From an interrupt service routine, use xQueueSendToFrontFromISR/xQueueSendToBackFromISR.

xQueueReceive, xQueuePeek From an interrupt service routine, xQueueReceiveFromISR.

uxQueueMessagesWaiting From an interrupt service routine, uxQueueMessagesWaitingFromISR.

Example 10. Blocking When Receiving From a Queue 

Example 11. Blocking When Sending to a Queue / Sending Structures on a Queue

transfer pointers to the data rather than copy the data

• How to create a queue. • How a queue manages the data it contains. • How to send data to a queue. • How to receive data from a queue. • What it means to block on a queue. • The effect task priorities have when writing to and reading from a queue.

different processing overhead and response time requirements.

• Which FreeRTOS API functions can be used from within an interrupt service routine. • How a deferred interrupt scheme can be implemented. • How to create and use binary semaphores and counting semaphores. • The differences between binary and counting semaphores. • How to use a queue to pass data into and out of an interrupt service routine. • The interrupt nesting model of the Cortex-M3 FreeRTOS port.

